Readme.md, before:

# Jest cheat sheet

## Basic test

```js
describe('makePoniesPink', () => {
  it('should make each pony pink', () => {
    const actual = fn(['Alice', 'Bob', 'Eve']);
    expect(actual).toEqual(['Pink Alice', 'Pink Bob', 'Pink Eve']);
  });
});
```

## Matchers

```js
expect.assertions(28)

expect(42).toBe(42)
expect(42).not.toBe(3)
expect([1, 2]).toEqual([1, 2])
expect('foo').toBeTruthy()
expect('').toBeFalsy()
expect(null).toBeNull()
expect(undefined).toBeUndefined()
expect(7).toBeDefined()

expect('long string').toMatch('str')
expect(result).toMatch(/regexp/)

expect(() => {}).toEqual(expect.any(Function));

expect({a: 1, b: 2}).toMatchObject({a: 1})

expect(2).toBeGreaterThan(1)
expect(1).toBeGreaterThanOrEqual(1)
expect(1).toBeLessThan(2)
expect(1).toBeLessThanOrEqual(1)
expect(0.2 + 0.1).toBeCloseTo(0.3, 5)

expect(['Alice', 'Bob', 'Eve']).toHaveLength(3)
expect(['Alice', 'Bob', 'Eve']).toContain('Alice')
expect([{a: 1}, {a: 2}]).toContainEqual({a: 1})
expect(['Alice', 'Bob', 'Eve']).toEqual(expect.arrayContaining(['Alice', 'Bob']))

expect(new A()).toBeInstanceOf(A)

expect(node).toMatchSnapshot()

expect(fn).toThrow()
expect(fn).toThrow('Out of cheese')
expect(fn).toThrowErrorMatchingSnapshot()

fn.mockClear(); // Clear number of calls
expect(fn).toBeCalled()
expect(fn).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1)
expect(fn).toBeCalledWith(expect.stringContaining('foo'))
expect(fn).toBeCalledWith(expect.stringMatching(/^[A-Z]\d+$/))
expect(fn).toBeCalledWith(expect.objectContaining({x: expect.any(Number), y: expect.any(Number)}))
expect(fn).toHaveBeenLastCalledWith(expect.anything())
```

[Matchers docs](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/expect.html)

## Promise matchers (Jest 20+)

```js
it('should resolve to lemon', () => {
  // Make sure to add a return statement
  return expect(Promise.resolve('lemon')).resolves.toBe('lemon');
  // return expect(Promise.reject('octopus')).rejects.toBeDefined();
});
```

Or with async/await:

```js
it('shoul resolve to lemon', async () => {
  await expect(Promise.resolve('lemon')).resolves.toBe('lemon');
  await expect(Promise.resolve('lemon')).resolves.not.toBe('octopus');
});
```

[resolves docs](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/en/expect.html#resolves)

## Mock functions

```js
it('should call the callback', () => {
  const callback = jest.fn();
  fn(callback);
  expect(callback).toBeCalled();
  expect(callback.mock.calls[0][1].baz).toBe('pizza'); // Second argument of the first call
});
```

[Mock functions docs](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/mock-function-api.html)

## Mock modules using `jest.mock` method

```js
jest.mock('lodash/memoize', () => a => a); // The original lodash/memoize should exist
jest.mock('lodash/memoize', () => a => a, { virtual: true });  // The original lodash/memoize isn’t required
```

[jest.mock docs](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/jest-object.html#jestmockmodulename-factory-options)

> Note: When using `babel-jest`, calls to `jest.mock` will automatically be hoisted to the top of the code block. Use `jest.doMock` if you want to explicitly avoid this behavior.

## Mock modules using a mock file

1. Create a file like `__mocks__/lodash/memoize.js`:

   ```js
   module.exports = a => a;
   ```

2. Add to your test:

   ```js
   jest.mock('lodash/memoize');
   ```

> Note: When using `babel-jest`, calls to `jest.mock` will automatically be hoisted to the top of the code block. Use `jest.doMock` if you want to explicitly avoid this behavior.

[Manual mocks docs](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/manual-mocks.html)

## Resources

* [Jest site](https://facebook.github.io/jest/)
* [Testing React components with Jest and Enzyme](http://blog.sapegin.me/all/react-jest) by Artem Sapegin
* [Testing React Applications](https://youtu.be/59Ndb3YkLKA) by Max Stoiber
* [Migrating to Jest](https://medium.com/@kentcdodds/migrating-to-jest-881f75366e7e#.pc4s5ut6z) by Kent C. Dodds
* [Migrating AVA to Jest](http://browniefed.com/blog/migrating-ava-to-jest/) by Jason Brown
* [How to Test React and MobX with Jest](https://semaphoreci.com/community/tutorials/how-to-test-react-and-mobx-with-jest)

***

## You may also like

* [Opinionated list of React components](https://github.com/sapegin/react-components)

## Contributing

Improvements are welcome! Open an issue or send a pull request.

## Author and license

[Artem Sapegin](http://sapegin.me/), a frontend developer at [Here](https://here.com/en) and the creator of [React Styleguidist](https://github.com/styleguidist/react-styleguidist). I also write about frontend at [my blog](http://blog.sapegin.me/).

CC0 1.0 Universal license, see the included [License.md](/License.md) file.

Commit message:

Add note about custom implementation for jest.fn

Readme.md, after:

# Jest cheat sheet

## Basic test

```js
describe('makePoniesPink', () => {
  it('should make each pony pink', () => {
    const actual = fn(['Alice', 'Bob', 'Eve']);
    expect(actual).toEqual(['Pink Alice', 'Pink Bob', 'Pink Eve']);
  });
});
```

## Matchers

```js
expect.assertions(28)

expect(42).toBe(42)
expect(42).not.toBe(3)
expect([1, 2]).toEqual([1, 2])
expect('foo').toBeTruthy()
expect('').toBeFalsy()
expect(null).toBeNull()
expect(undefined).toBeUndefined()
expect(7).toBeDefined()

expect('long string').toMatch('str')
expect(result).toMatch(/regexp/)

expect(() => {}).toEqual(expect.any(Function));

expect({a: 1, b: 2}).toMatchObject({a: 1})

expect(2).toBeGreaterThan(1)
expect(1).toBeGreaterThanOrEqual(1)
expect(1).toBeLessThan(2)
expect(1).toBeLessThanOrEqual(1)
expect(0.2 + 0.1).toBeCloseTo(0.3, 5)

expect(['Alice', 'Bob', 'Eve']).toHaveLength(3)
expect(['Alice', 'Bob', 'Eve']).toContain('Alice')
expect([{a: 1}, {a: 2}]).toContainEqual({a: 1})
expect(['Alice', 'Bob', 'Eve']).toEqual(expect.arrayContaining(['Alice', 'Bob']))

expect(new A()).toBeInstanceOf(A)

expect(node).toMatchSnapshot()

expect(fn).toThrow()
expect(fn).toThrow('Out of cheese')
expect(fn).toThrowErrorMatchingSnapshot()

fn.mockClear(); // Clear number of calls
expect(fn).toBeCalled()
expect(fn).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1)
expect(fn).toBeCalledWith(expect.stringContaining('foo'))
expect(fn).toBeCalledWith(expect.stringMatching(/^[A-Z]\d+$/))
expect(fn).toBeCalledWith(expect.objectContaining({x: expect.any(Number), y: expect.any(Number)}))
expect(fn).toHaveBeenLastCalledWith(expect.anything())
```

[Matchers docs](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/expect.html)

## Promise matchers (Jest 20+)

```js
it('should resolve to lemon', () => {
  // Make sure to add a return statement
  return expect(Promise.resolve('lemon')).resolves.toBe('lemon');
  // return expect(Promise.reject('octopus')).rejects.toBeDefined();
});
```

Or with async/await:

```js
it('shoul resolve to lemon', async () => {
  await expect(Promise.resolve('lemon')).resolves.toBe('lemon');
  await expect(Promise.resolve('lemon')).resolves.not.toBe('octopus');
});
```

[resolves docs](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/en/expect.html#resolves)

## Mock functions

```js
it('should call the callback', () => {
  const callback = jest.fn();
  fn(callback);
  expect(callback).toBeCalled();
  expect(callback.mock.calls[0][1].baz).toBe('pizza'); // Second argument of the first call
});
```

You can also pass an implementation to `jest.fn` function:

```js
const callback = jest.fn(() => true);
```

[Mock functions docs](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/mock-function-api.html)

## Mock modules using `jest.mock` method

```js
jest.mock('lodash/memoize', () => a => a); // The original lodash/memoize should exist
jest.mock('lodash/memoize', () => a => a, { virtual: true });  // The original lodash/memoize isn’t required
```

[jest.mock docs](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/jest-object.html#jestmockmodulename-factory-options)

> Note: When using `babel-jest`, calls to `jest.mock` will automatically be hoisted to the top of the code block. Use `jest.doMock` if you want to explicitly avoid this behavior.

## Mock modules using a mock file

1. Create a file like `__mocks__/lodash/memoize.js`:

   ```js
   module.exports = a => a;
   ```

2. Add to your test:

   ```js
   jest.mock('lodash/memoize');
   ```

> Note: When using `babel-jest`, calls to `jest.mock` will automatically be hoisted to the top of the code block. Use `jest.doMock` if you want to explicitly avoid this behavior.

[Manual mocks docs](https://facebook.github.io/jest/docs/manual-mocks.html)

## Resources

* [Jest site](https://facebook.github.io/jest/)
* [Testing React components with Jest and Enzyme](http://blog.sapegin.me/all/react-jest) by Artem Sapegin
* [Testing React Applications](https://youtu.be/59Ndb3YkLKA) by Max Stoiber
* [Migrating to Jest](https://medium.com/@kentcdodds/migrating-to-jest-881f75366e7e#.pc4s5ut6z) by Kent C. Dodds
* [Migrating AVA to Jest](http://browniefed.com/blog/migrating-ava-to-jest/) by Jason Brown
* [How to Test React and MobX with Jest](https://semaphoreci.com/community/tutorials/how-to-test-react-and-mobx-with-jest)

***

## You may also like

* [Opinionated list of React components](https://github.com/sapegin/react-components)

## Contributing

Improvements are welcome! Open an issue or send a pull request.

## Author and license

[Artem Sapegin](http://sapegin.me/), a frontend developer at [Here](https://here.com/en) and the creator of [React Styleguidist](https://github.com/styleguidist/react-styleguidist). I also write about frontend at [my blog](http://blog.sapegin.me/).

CC0 1.0 Universal license, see the included [License.md](/License.md) file.
